Alright, let's start with the Take My Money
and if you remember,
Take My Money is just a button
that hits stripe for a token
and the token comes back
and then the on token is fired
and we take that response
start the progress indicator
and then call create order.
Let's actually get rid of these console logs
so they don't muddy up everything else that we have.
Let's also export the create order mutation before we
shoot ourself in the foot.
And we are actually going to be
mocking this create order function running here
and we are also going to be mocking this and manually
calling this on token.
I'll show you what I mean. So,
let's first open up tests and make a new file called
TakeMyMoney.test.js
and you guessed it
we are gonna import a whole bunch of stuff!
Let's go to the remove from cart test and import everything
that we imported in there,
paste it in.
We also want to, uh,
import nprogress
from nprogress
and we need the router from
next router
and we need the Take
My Money
component
from Take My Money
and what was that mutation called?
Create order mutation
So, create order mutation.
Believe that's everything that we need
Let's go ahead and write some mocks
First thing we want to do is swap out the router
So, router dot router is equal to
and we'll put push
we're actually going to swap this out with a mock function
in just a bit, but let's leave it at that for now.
Then we'll make some mocks
for the query is the current user query.
And the result
is going to have data
me
we'll spread a fake user
then our cart
is going to have fake cart item inside of it.
Then we'll go ahead and describe our test.
First it renders and matches snapshot.
Await await.
Wrapper update
(done-da-na-na-nah)
Now we are gonna find the button,
oop, we gotta mark this as a "s".
Oop, these things need to go in here.
That's why it is yelling at us.
Let's find the button and then just snap shot it.
So, const checkout button is equal to wrapper dot find.
React stripe.
Checkout.
We will expect checkout button
actually two Json checkout button
to match
snapshot.
Cannot read property cart
of undefined
oh, we have to pass our mocks.
Otherwise it doesn't have an empty cart to show.
Cannot read cart of undefinded,
Let's actually open up the Take My Money component
and I know what's happening here!
We're never, in our application, we're never rendering
Take My Money unless the user is actually signed in
and that never led to the situation where
me was undefined and then we just went ahead and started it.
However there is the possibility that the user
is going to be loading and that is exactly what it is doing
in the test.
So we go ahead and wait for this thing and then update it
to get past that loading state
but this component tries to render itself out
in the loading state
because we're not checking for loading state here.
So, I think that what tests are meant to do
is to actually surface those kinds of bugs
where you would never actually reach that situation
in your application or you might, but you haven't.
And we haven't done that in development.
So, let's actually modify this real quick
So, we are
having the loading state
and let's bring this down as a return
let's switch this to a explicit
we'll bring that curly bracket to the bottom here
and then we'll say:
If loading return
null.
And that fixed itself!
So we want to check if it's loading it.
If it is loading, we'll return nothing
and that makes everything pass.
But I better, so let's take a look at our
Take My Money snapshot and
that looks like it's working properly.
So, that's the first test.
Next test is that it
creates an
order on token.
Now here is where are gonna make a mock function
so we'll say const
create order mock is equal to jest dot fn
and then we are going to mock resolved value
of what its expecting
and its expecting to get some data back
and inside of that, it's expecting to have
create order
inside of that it's suppose to have and ID of XYZ
and this create order mock is going to run
inside of here
we are going to mock this thing right here.
So
next we're going to mount it
and you can just go ahead and take this right here
this wrapper from the previous test
paste it in.
We're going to find the component
so, const component
is equal to wrapper dot find
Take My Money.
Then we're going to call the instance on that, so we
can manually get access to all of that instance method.
So if we console log the component
we should see
Take My Money and it should have an
on token function inside of it.
That's exactly what we are looking for.
So, we're going to manually call
that on token
method.
So say component
dot on token.
We're going to call it with the token ID
ABC123
and we're going to manually provide it
the create order mock.
That we've done right here.
Then we're going to take
that create order mock
and we're going to expect the create order mock
to
have
been called
let's just make sure that works.
Good.
And then we're going to say:
to have been called with
variables.
Let's just see what's in there
and pass an empty object and see what it got called with.
I always like doing that.
Here we go. It got called with an
object variables on token ABC
Good. Everything is passing.
Next test we want to do is say:
It turns the progress bar on.
Go ahead and take the same wrapper.
Wait.
Update.
And we'll mock nprogress dot start
and we'll, we can go ahead and take the same
create order mock that we did earlier.
So, grab that.
Paste it in here.
And we'll manually call it again.
So grab the component
and manually call it.
We can take those lines as well.
And we can expect nprogress
dot start
to have been called.
Looks like it's working.
Good.
Next one, we want to make sure that the router has moved.
It routes to the order page when completed.
We can take the, from the previous test,
the mounting and the updating.
The create order mock
and the component
and the manually call.
And before we manually call it, we want to mock
the router as well.
We'll say router dot router dot push
is equal to jest dot fn.
Then we'll wait and we'll expect
router dot router dot push
to have been called.
Let's see if that passes first.
Good. Then to have been called with,
I don't think you necessarily need both of these expects
because if it was called with it obviously was, will have
been called already, so you maybe can remove one of those.
It doesn't really matter.
Let's just see what it was called with.
It received and object
that is a path name order
query
with an ID of XYZ789
which is exactly what we mocked it with, right there.
Good. So, we'll go here, we'll say
path name forward slash order
and the query ID
XYZ
789.
Everything passes.
Beautiful! So that's all of our Take My Money
up and running and notice that we never interfaced
with stripe there because we want to make these tests
as self contained as possible. That's exactly why
we used a mock there to manually called our
on token ourselves.
Next, we want to take a look at our order
component.
Which we just have a query
and display out all of the information about the order.
This is just a query. There is not mutations
or anything like that, so you should be able to do this
one on your own by now.
So go ahead and try that one, otherwise let's keep going.
So I'm going to make a new file
order dot test dot js.
I'm gonna import everything I need
mount to json
wait mock provider.
We're going to import our order component in the
single order query.
Let's triple check that we actually exported that.
Of course not.
Let's go ahead and grab that single order query
and export it from order dot js.
Jump back into the test here
then when we are grabbing our fake order.
Make some mocks.
The request
as a query
a single order query
variables
ID
ABC123.
And this should be in an object itself.
Then the result
data
and the order is a fake order
Let's actually triple check.
Let's look at that test utils.
And we make a fake order.
The ID is ORD123.
So, we want to use ORD123
not ABC123.
Okay, we'll describe it.
Order it renders the order
We'll make a wrapper.
Order with an ID of ORD123.
We'll wait.
We'll update.
You'll find the order.
And that is wrapper
dot find
You'll want to grab a div.
What is, what is on here?
That's our order styles. Let's put a data dash test
of order on the actual order itself.
That way we can easily grab it in here.
Expect
to json
order
to match
snapshot.
Getting an error here. That needs to be a sync.
Let's check out the order snapshot.
Null! That's not right!
So, that's again a downside to using snapshots
as everything looks like it worked
but if you don't check your snapshots you're going
to be in a bit of trouble.
But, hopefully no one would ever merge a snapshot of
null into into your things.
So let's
take a look here console log
wrapper dot debug. See what we're working with here.
Mock provider
There we go, there's an error
No more mock responses for the query.
Single order query, of course!
And we forgot to pass the mocks, of course!
And now the actual snapshot is getting rid of null and
actually putting the order in there.
So we'll go ahead and hit U to update that.
Get rid of this debug here.
Everything's fine.
Let's triple check our snapshot.
Here is our actual snapshot
of everything that we have in here.
And now at this point what we can do is check that the
order total is actually the same,
the number of items are on the page, everything is
rendering out properly.
I'm not going to go through that
just cause we've done that so much,
finding the items on the page, checking that there's
the same the right amount there, checking that the items
are adding up properly. All of that good stuff.
You can go ahead an right a whole bunch more expects in here
if you want.
Other than that, I'm pretty happy
just using match snapshot to
make sure everything stays exactly the same
that we want it.
That is our order and I believe that is the end
of our testings. There's a couple little components
here and there that we haven't test, but I think
we have covered all of the possible different ways
to test.
From doing our unit testing,
doing our mounting and shallow rendering
the difference between those two,
showing you how to do mocking of functions as well as
mocking of the returned results from Apollo.
Hopefully you enjoyed that and now let's get into
deployment.